{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Display the current time in the given FORMAT, or set the system date.\par
\par
       Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.\par
\par
       -d, --date=STRING\par
              display time described by STRING, not 'now'\par
\par
       --debug\par
              annotate the parsed date, and warn about questionable usage to stderr\par
\par
       -f, --file=DATEFILE\par
              like --date; once for each line of DATEFILE\par
\par
       -I[FMT], --iso-8601[=FMT]\par
              output date/time in ISO 8601 format.  FMT='date' for date only (the default), 'hours', 'minutes', 'seconds', or 'ns' for date and time to the indicated precision.  Example: 2006-08-14T02:34:56-06:00\par
\par
       -R, --rfc-email\par
              output date and time in RFC 5322 format.  Example: Mon, 14 Aug 2006 02:34:56 -0600\par
\par
       --rfc-3339=FMT\par
              output date/time in RFC 3339 format.  FMT='date', 'seconds', or 'ns' for date and time to the indicated precision.  Example: 2006-08-14 02:34:56-06:00\par
\par
       -r, --reference=FILE\par
              display the last modification time of FILE\par
\par
       -s, --set=STRING\par
              set time described by STRING\par
\par
       -u, --utc, --universal\par
              print or set Coordinated Universal Time (UTC)\par
\par
       --help display this help and exit\par
\par
       --version\par
              output version information and exit\par
\par
       FORMAT controls the output.  Interpreted sequences are:\par
\par
       %%     a literal %\par
\par
       %a     locale's abbreviated weekday name (e.g., Sun)\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
uptime gives a one line display of the following information.  The current time, how long the system has been running, how many users are currently logged on, and the system load averages for the past 1, 5, and 15 minutes.\par
\par
       This is the same information contained in the header line displayed by w(1).\par
\par
       System  load  averages is the average number of processes that are either in a runnable or uninterruptable state.  A process in a runnable state is either using the CPU or waiting to use the CPU.  A process in uninterrupt\f1\u8208?\par
       able state is waiting for some I/O access, eg waiting for disk.  The averages are taken over the three time intervals.  Load averages are not normalized for the number of CPUs in a system, so a load average of  1  means  a\par
       single CPU system is loaded all the time while on a 4 CPU system it means it was idle 75% of the time.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
man  is  the system's manual pager.  Each page argument given to man is normally the name of a program, utility or function.  The manual page associated with each of these arguments is then found and displayed.  A section,\par
       if provided, will direct man to look only in that section of the manual.  The default action is to search in all of the available sections following a pre-defined order (see DEFAULTS), and  to  show  only  the  first  page\par
       found, even if page exists in several sections.\par
\par
       The table below shows the section numbers of the manual followed by the types of pages they contain.\par
\par
       1   Executable programs or shell commands\par
       2   System calls (functions provided by the kernel)\par
       3   Library calls (functions within program libraries)\par
       4   Special files (usually found in /dev)\par
       5   File formats and conventions, e.g. /etc/passwd\par
       6   Games\par
       7   Miscellaneous (including macro packages and conventions), e.g. man(7), groff(7)\par
       8   System administration commands (usually only for root)\par
       9   Kernel routines [Non standard]\par
\par
       A manual page consists of several sections.\par
\par
       Conventional section names include NAME, SYNOPSIS, CONFIGURATION, DESCRIPTION, OPTIONS, EXIT STATUS, RETURN VALUE, ERRORS, ENVIRONMENT, FILES, VERSIONS, CONFORMING TO, NOTES, BUGS, EXAMPLE, AUTHORS, and SEE ALSO.\par
\par
       The following conventions apply to the SYNOPSIS section and can be used as a guide in other sections.\par
\par
       bold text          type exactly as shown.\par
       italic text        replace with appropriate argument.\par
       [-abc]             any or all arguments within [ ] are optional.\par
       -a|-b              options delimited by | cannot be used together.\par
       argument ...       argument is repeatable.\par
       [expression] ...   entire expression within [ ] is repeatable.\par
\par
       Exact rendering may vary depending on the output device.  For instance, man will usually not be able to render italics when running in a terminal, and will typically use underlined or coloured text instead.\par
\par
       The  command  or  function illustration is a pattern that should match all possible invocations.  In some cases it is advisable to illustrate several exclusive invocations as is shown in the SYNOPSIS section of this manual\par
       page.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Concatenate FILE(s) to standard output.\par
\par
       With no FILE, or when FILE is -, read standard input.\par
\par
       -A, --show-all\par
              equivalent to -vET\par
\par
       -b, --number-nonblank\par
              number nonempty output lines, overrides -n\par
\par
       -e     equivalent to -vE\par
\par
       -E, --show-ends\par
              display $ at end of each line\par
\par
       -n, --number\par
              number all output lines\par
\par
       -s, --squeeze-blank\par
              suppress repeated empty output lines\par
\par
       -t     equivalent to -vT\par
\par
       -T, --show-tabs\par
              display TAB characters as ^I\par
\par
       -u     (ignored)\par
\par
       -v, --show-nonprinting\par
              use ^ and M- notation, except for LFD and TAB\par
\par
       --help display this help and exit\par
\par
       --version\par
              output version information and exit\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
which returns the pathnames of the files (or links) which would be executed in the current environment, had its arguments been given as commands in a strictly POSIX-conformant shell.  It does this by searching the PATH for\par
       executable files matching the names of the arguments.  It does not canonicalize path names.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
Print the user name associated with the current effective user ID.  Same as id -un.\par
\par
       --help display this help and exit\par
\par
       --version\par
              output version information and exit\par
\par
\par
\par
Paginate or columnate FILE(s) for printing.\par
\par
       With no FILE, or when FILE is -, read standard input.\par
\par
       Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.\par
\par
       +FIRST_PAGE[:LAST_PAGE], --pages=FIRST_PAGE[:LAST_PAGE]\par
              begin [stop] printing with page FIRST_[LAST_]PAGE\par
\par
       -COLUMN, --columns=COLUMN\par
              output COLUMN columns and print columns down, unless -a is used. Balance number of lines in the columns on each page\par
\par
       -a, --across\par
              print columns across rather than down, used together with -COLUMN\par
\par
       -c, --show-control-chars\par
              use hat notation (^G) and octal backslash notation\par
\par
       -d, --double-space\par
              double space the output\par
\par
       -D, --date-format=FORMAT\par
              use FORMAT for the header date\par
\par
       -e[CHAR[WIDTH]], --expand-tabs[=CHAR[WIDTH]]\par
              expand input CHARs (TABs) to tab WIDTH (8)\par
\par
       -F, -f, --form-feed\par
              use form feeds instead of newlines to separate pages (by a 3-line page header with -F or a 5-line header and trailer without -F)\par
\par
       -h, --header=HEADER\par
              use a centered HEADER instead of filename in page header, -h "" prints a blank line, don't use -h""\par
\par
       -i[CHAR[WIDTH]], --output-tabs[=CHAR[WIDTH]]\par
              replace spaces with CHARs (TABs) to tab WIDTH (8)\par
\par
       -J, --join-lines\par
              merge full lines, turns off -W line truncation, no column alignment, --sep-string[=STRING] sets separators\par
\par
       -l, --length=PAGE_LENGTH\par
              set the page length to PAGE_LENGTH (66) lines (default number of lines of text 56, and with -F 63).  implies -t if PAGE_LENGTH <= 10\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
rint the file name of the terminal connected to standard input.\par
\par
       -s, --silent, --quiet\par
              print nothing, only return an exit status\par
\par
       --help display this help and exit\par
\par
       --version\par
              output version information and exit\par
\par
\par
\par
\f0\par
}
 